# Negotiating Update 24-07

Last week, we concluded our second round of mediated bargaining with the Company in Chicago. While our Memphis bargaining sessions represented introductory discussions and the advancement of lower-tier issues, this week was very different.

After several weeks of extensive preparation, our committee presented the entire economic package. Retirement, Quality of Life, and Compensation have all been passed across the table and are in the Company’s hands. With these submissions, all of our positions are before the Company for their response, with the exception of Scope, which will be presented at the next round of bargaining.

Chronologically, the week began with a recap of the last sessions. We asked if the Company had any responses to our previously proffered CBA Section supposals ("supposals" are essentially proposals, which allow the proffering party to revert to their previous position, if necessary). They did not. Additionally, you may recall that we submitted several “action items” designed to lower the ambient temperature of the bargaining process while providing pilots with some immediate relief and enhancements to commuting and other prevalent issues (Negotiations Update 24-06). Among those issues was the concept of "capturing" a future retirement benefit for currently employed pilots who retire before we reach an agreement. This would encourage retirements and relieve any overstaffing issues that might exist. The Company declined to engage on any of these concepts.

Following that exchange, the Company provided a wide-ranging presentation on Scope. Our outside counsel participated remotely and engaged management with a number of questions. We are awaiting the Company’s response to certain data requested during our exchange.

Immediately after the Scope discussion, we proffered a supposal on Section 8 that centered on Deviation Bank improvements that would allow for more prolonged deviation fund retention and streamlining of the reconciliation process through a combination of the Hotel Room Cancelation Bank and Deviation Bank.

On Wednesday morning, we presented our comprehensive Section 28 Retirement supposal. For this presentation, we utilized key members of ALPA's national and local Retirement and Insurance (R&I) staff, members of our R&I Committee, and our consultant. Together, we presented a three-part structure designed to give pilots control and choice over their retirement, none of which contemplate closing the Legacy Defined Benefit plan to new hires. Specifically the three-part design includes: the (1) Legacy Defined Benefit plan with an increased Final Average Earnings (FAE) cap above the previous TA value, along with a provision that recognizes length of service for specific long-tenured pilots; (2) a significantly restructured Market Based Cash Balance Plan (MBCBP) using a flat dollar formula versus one tied to a percentage of compensation; and finally, (3) a Defined Contribution ("DC Only") option that is very similar to what is in place at the legacy carriers. Additionally, we proposed increases to the Defined Contribution plans for pilots in the Legacy and MBCBP plans while all Defined Contribution plans contemplate money retention over the IRS compensation limit with a "spill" into the MBCBP instead of straight "cash over the cap."

On Wednesday afternoon, we presented our "work rules" supposal on Sections 4, 12, and 25, including numerous concepts designed to protect our pilots from various adverse scenarios. The following information requires your close attention. It is more apparent now than ever before that Section 4.A.2.b. and c. are major areas of concern. The current application of the SAM choreography is so far afield from its original purpose that this part of the CBA requires serious attention. Undeniably, the calculation and application of the SAM now appears to function more like a scheduling tool than as an objective measure of the airline’s economic health. While somewhat complex, the exclusion of carryover, draft, volunteer, or any extra flying (including third party flights) from the SAM, along with decreased reserve lines, illustrates the unreliability of the SAM as a valid metric.

The SAM can trigger drastic reductions in BLGs and can create additional risk for our pilots in terms of pay and benefits. The current SAM values in 4.A.2.c. could significantly offset and diminish any future gains we negotiate due to reduced monthly guarantees. Another crucial issue is the long-standing disagreement between the Association and the Company about what happens when and if the first pilot is furloughed. The Association maintains that a furlough triggers the immediate exit of these sections and return to the regular line values. The Company maintains that they have (and need) the latitude to continue to apply these clauses as they right-size the airline's staffing, leaving us in 4.A.2.c reduced guarantees for an undetermined time. To that end, we seek a CBA that aligns our pilots with the rest of the airline industry. No other carrier has contractual language remotely close to the language in Sections 4.A.2.b and c of our CBA. Consequently, we proposed to move in a direction that parallels the industry by eliminating those sections. To be clear, furlough is also not the answer from our perspective. We recognize the importance of this issue, and we will keep you apprised of any progress on this front.

The remainder of our Section 4 supposal dealt with improved trip and duty rigs, MPDPs, RLG, and Overages. In addition, the following new pay concepts were introduced: Revision, Long Unaugmented Duty Period, and Holiday. We will expand on these concepts in future updates as negotiations progress.

Our Section 12, Hours of Service, along with the other two work rule supposals, was designed to inhibit the Company's behavior and protect you regarding revisions and extensions. The Company perfected the art of revisions and extensions during the COVID era and has continued to refine them to the extent that our collective seniority effectively ends at bid award time. There is no denying that this is the case.

We proposed that pilots could sit field hotel standby at another location (their house, for instance, if they resided in that location), and requiring pilot consent when circumstances dictate going beyond operational limits absent a Section 12.A.3. Operational Emergency. Finally, we addressed fatigue-related items based on your collective feedback.

Turning to Section 25, Scheduling, we introduced the concept of inviolate Golden Days off, which would allow a pilot (on a limited basis) to designate days free from duty on their awarded days off. We maintained our opposition to the TA Student Lines provision and proposed a study group to facilitate the implementation of real-time trip trading. Although we would like real-time trip trading to occur immediately, we recognize that bargaining endeavor would bog down these negotiations. We also proposed pilot only access to new open time trips for a specific time period prior to reserve assignment. Several Reserve improvements were advanced. Among those were increases in the percentage of R-24 lines, other R-24 improvements, the ability to trade and proffer assigned trips, along with trip guarantee upon assignment.

Thursday morning was focused on Section 3, Compensation. We did not advance an Amendable Period Recovery Pay value as it is a function of time and historically decided at the end of bargaining. Instead, the crux of the conversation revolved around hourly rates and our current relative position. The legacy carriers (DL, UA, AA) all step together with a 4% raise on 01/01/25, which will place us at a 38.6% disadvantage. With that being the pattern, our proposed rates would be the highest in the industry.

As a reminder, the UPS/IPA negotiations began in June. To that end, we proposed a one-time “snap up” adjustment (if required) to exceed the UPS pay rates (adjusted appropriately for our pay structure) by 1% in the event the IPA negotiates a higher rate subsequent to our CBA ratification. To round out the Compensation package, we proposed increases to the respective international overrides and the introduction of a Long Range Premium, which would trigger at 11:35 of block time. This concept was agreed to in late 2008 during the 777 LOA pay negotiations but, ironically, failed approval at the MEC level due to the impending application of the former 4.A.2.b. and the disparate BLGs among the fleets.

The Company has not proffered any section to date, as they wanted to understand the extent of our entire economic package. They undoubtedly know where we stand now. To be clear, this is a negotiation, and we anticipate hard bargaining ahead. However, there is no question that the airline industry's bargaining environment has shifted significantly upward, and we remain in a very labor-friendly pattern bargaining cycle.

As we move forward together, we must all collectively embrace the concept of being "ALL IN." We need your unequivocal support to lift us towards the targets set out above. ALPA National continues to provide generous access to its experts, resources, and sage advice from Captain Ambrosi on down. However, you will be the difference makers. One way that you can make a difference is by attending our "3 Year Amendable Date Rally" at 5:00 p.m., November 16th, in Memphis at the FedEx Event Center (RSVP here). See you there.

John, Tom & Alan
