# Negotiating Update 25-04
 
Before we go into depth with this update, our committee, on behalf of the entire MEC, would like to thank you for your patience as we navigated and endured the last several months. We are highly aware of the frustration throughout our membership.
 
With the resumption of mediated negotiations this past week in Charlotte, N.C., our committee believes we are finally on a path to a successful resolution to this bargaining cycle. The remaining bargaining will be challenging, with many significant remaining ratification issues.

Last week began with mediator expectations related to both parties (briefed separately). Section 1 (Scope) and Section 28 (Retirement) were on the published agenda. Additionally, the Association utilized time to discuss Work Rules / Quality of Life (Sections 4, 12, 25), and subsequently offered a proposal. 

Regarding Scope, our outside counsel presented a comprehensive proposal addressing what you identified as career-protective provisions. To be clear, FedEx must remain viable and grow so our members can have successful careers. We have consistently maintained that we intend not to hamstring the Corporation, preventing future growth, but to strike a balance that works for both sides. Recent Company actions regarding FDA closures, enhanced use of "belly freight," and other issues have put our members on edge, wondering what's next and where we fit into the long-term picture. Along those lines, our committee continually stresses the need for transparency. If there is no "there, there" concerning white-tail flying, then a transparent approach would confirm that our members have nothing to worry about. The Company owes a Scope proposal, but it will not manifest itself next week due to the complexities involved.

Following Scope, the Company presented its long-awaited Retirement proposal. In a not-so-surprising but disappointing move, the Company presented the identical TA 2023 Retirement construct, except that it was less robust, with a single FAE cap of $330K, which was lower than the final cap in the rejected 2023 TA ($338K). As a reminder, the Company has had our Retirement proposal since October 23, 2024. The Company wants out of the funding requirements associated with the Legacy Defined Benefit plan.  For our newer members’ edification, the Company has wanted out of the Legacy Defined Benefit since the 2004-2006 negotiations. During that bargaining cycle, the Company proposed putting the new hire pilots on a "Cash Balance" portable pension plan similar to the plan that the Company unilaterally transitioned other employees. Our approach to the funding issue addressed the pension benefit obligation by encouraging migration into alternative plans, drastically reducing the legacy funding requirement. 

Following Retirement, our committee presented several thematic issues associated with Sections 4, 12, and 25 before a formal proposal we made later in that session. Among the themes were open-time access, reserve issues, extensions, revisions, and  Section 4A2b/c. We presented a notebook of over 500 DARTs from 2025 relating to extensions and revisions. We continue to emphasize that in our members' eyes, your seniority currently ends at bid awards, as the actual flying can differ tremendously, especially in the international environment. Senior pilots avoid back-end deadheads originating from some international locations due to the high probability of a revision and an extension. For international pilots, mentally placing an 84-hour buffer behind each trip bid makes line selection very difficult. These significant changes to our flight operations are now ratification items when they were not on the radar in 2023.

Of course, all of this isn't easy to reconcile when we are overstaffed and should have an abundance of pilots on hand to cover irregular operations. Yet, that is not the case. We informed the Company that although we are down over 200 pilots year over year, in the reduced BLG environment of 4A2c, ALPA's dues income is essentially the same. So, we have attritted most senior pilot salaries off the top (admittedly, along with some junior resignations), yet the dues income remains relatively flat. Our committee believes that can only be explained via enhanced reliance on draft and overage pay related to extensions and revisions. Could this excursion through 4A2b/c not have saved the Company any pilot-associated costs? Our relationship with the Company is now indelibly scarred, and continuing this behavior will not be fruitful for both parties.

To that end, rather than focus on a numerical metric, we have shifted to one that is based on “consent.”  That means that the spirit and intent of Section 4A2b/c, which is to prevent or delay a furlough, remains intact.  Specifically, if the Company anticipates the need for staffing reductions due to economic conditions, it would be required to commence negotiations with the Association over various mitigation strategies before furloughing pilots.  Such strategies could include those named in our current CBA, but they would not be fixed, one-sided, or predetermined as they are now. Instead, they would include a flexible approach that permits both sides an opportunity to accomplish the desired result of delaying or preventing a furlough.

We resume bargaining next Tuesday in Charlotte. Our committee will present a Retirement proposal. The Company owes proposals on all other outstanding sections, most noticeably Compensation.

Our committee remains committed to achieving an easily ratified CBA. That's not code wording for lowering expectations but simply acknowledging that we must return to our former place of recognition in the industry.
 
John, Tom & Alan
FedEx-Negotiation@alpa.org
"Please ask yourself every day from now on, "What am I doing today to help our cause?"