# Negotiating Update 25-05

Our mediated bargaining resumed last week in Charlotte, with Retirement (Section 28) and Work Rules (Sections 4, 12, and 25) on the agenda. Overall, our committee was pleased with the week's events. While no Sections were TA'ed, productive dialogue and a further understanding of perspectives allowed our committee to begin to see a possible way through the forest regarding an eventual TA.

We want to stress a "possible way," as negotiating is a fluid, dynamic endeavor. This negotiation is especially complex as we are bargaining after the rejection of a TA, the NMB is involved, and our work environment is markedly different than during the time leading up to the first vote. Our committee staunchly believes this bargaining round has no room for error. Equally important to understand is that as your representatives at the table, our task is to enter into an agreement that accurately reflects our collective value to the Corporation and not enter into a bad arrangement. To accomplish this, we must keep an open mind, be flexible, and inform the MEC when significant changes to our approach need to occur. Negotiating committees can be subject to the fatal flaw of becoming "married" to a position, even when it does not look fruitful, and the outcome could be in doubt. We don't want to find ourselves in that circumstance.

Additionally, our committee must set personal bias aside and carry out the MEC's objectives, which, by extension, are your objectives. Everyone must be in alignment. As a member, it is your right and responsibility to let our leadership know your thoughts and desires. The worst possible scenario for ALPA, and arguably the Company, is to find out that there existed a significant disconnect during the ratification period. With that in mind, here are some relevant details about last week.

Retirement
The following comments are meant as kindly as possible, with no intended sarcasm (seriously). The Company believes that its Retirement proposal is "Industry-Leading." The foundation for that assertion is the 11% Compensation Credits in the MBCBP and the 9% DC, which are both capped by the 401(a) Compensation Limit, which is $350,000 for 2025. As such, one can easily understand why the Company was exasperated and flustered when we proposed a much different retirement structure, centered on pilot choice with "cash over the cap" as a prominent feature last October in Chicago. A recent phenomenon regarding pilots' views on retirement is the incorporation of income replacement and percentage of compensation. Our structure contains a Market Plan, with two functions, as a primary Defined Benefit plan, and as a "spill" instrument to catch the monies over the IRS limits on the DC side. As an aside, during their last round of bargaining, the Delta MEC unsuccessfully attempted to achieve a Market Plan similar to our TA MBCBP.

The problem with the Company's MBCBP is that the 11% capped feature and 4A2c drive those Compensation Credits below acceptable ratification thresholds. Section 4A2c is also an issue for a heavily weighted or "straight" DC plan. We sought to counteract that issue in the Market Plan by using a flat dollar approach, which uses a formula that allows money beyond the compensation limit to be deposited equally on all pilots' behalf. Everyone would receive the same amount. There was also an inflation-protection formula tied to the top-of-scale WB Captain pay rate. Unfortunately, the Company didn't like that Market Plan approach, so we made a different attempt regarding the Market Plan last week. The Company should have a response when we meet again later this month.

Returning to the comments above regarding the complex nature of this bargaining round, our committee can make cogent arguments, "pro" and "con," concerning every type of retirement plan. Everyone has a different retirement scenario and story, so we chose the three-pronged approach, which would greatly encourage migration away from the legacy Defined Benefit plan, lowering the Company's Pension Benefit Obligation (PBO). Since the Market Plan was a key feature in the TA, and acknowledging where we are in the RLA process, we decided to include a modified version in our proposal. Also, as stated earlier, this is a fluid endeavor, and things could change that either increase or decrease the Market Plan's viability.

Work Rules
On Wednesday, the Company provided a comprehensive term sheet proposal for Sections 4, 12, and 25. Although their term sheet contained a lot of red ink, the associated presentation revealed areas where our committee could make progress towards our thematic goals of 4A2b/c, Reserves, Revisions, and Extensions. Additionally, we had been preparing for last Wednesday. You may recall that we utilized a multi-faceted approach to the work rules problems with multiple redundancies. Our committee never expected to achieve all items in our term sheets. The Company presented their proposal to us mid-morning. We worked hard throughout the day and returned Sections 4, 12, and 25 to them, minus some features that we did not believe were major priorities that afternoon. Our presentation allowed for more productive dialogue and gathering of insight into the issues before us. At the close of business on Wednesday, every section outstanding in the bargaining process resided in the Company's hands. The Company did provide another 4,12, and 25 proposal mid-afternoon on Thursday. We learned more from that exchange. Our committee will continue our efforts on these sections, as they are the only ones for which we are currently responsible. For those of you who want to keep a close eye on the process regarding who owes what, the Negotiating Meeting Grid on the MEC website can help you remain apprised. We are still awaiting the Company's Compensation (Section 3) proposal. We speculate that it is being slow-rolled so as not to enrage you until it's absolutely, positively necessary.

Last week was a good week, with progress made in key areas. Future bargaining will be challenging. Hopefully, both parties will be able to settle the Work Rules sections and the structure of the Retirement construct soon. That will leave the pure economic components and Scope. From there, the negotiating process could accelerate. Of course, the process could also stall out. We hope that is not the case, as four years of bargaining is enough, and the current work atmosphere reflects our members' sentiments. Our next bargaining sessions will occur in Charlotte from May 28th through May 30th. We anticipate that Retirement and Work Rules will be on the agenda again. Thanks for reading, and we'll be in touch.
 
John, Tom & Alan
FedEx-Negotiation@alpa.org
"What am I doing today to help our cause?"